# CTCF_Cohesin_shift_calculation
The summit-based high-resolution ChIP-seq analysis can be applied to mapping other transcription factor complexes on non-palindromic TFBSs
#Project name/Article: 
Motif oriented high-resolution analysis of ChIP-seq data reveals the topological order of CTCF and cohesin proteins on DNA
# About:
In ChIP-seq experiments, DNA fragments represented by sequence reads correspond to those regions that can be chemically cross-linked with a protein in question. In case of transcription factors (TFs), the term “peak” is generally used to denote a loosely defined region to which an elevated number of reads can be mapped compared to the background, while the peak summit shows the highest coverage of the region. Peak summits are known to more-or-less coincide with the corresponding DNA elements.
The summit-based high-resolution ChIP-seq analysis shows a characteristic shift pattern between the DNA contact points of CTCF, STAG1/2, RAD21 and SMC1/3 proteins. The high-resolution mapping approach proposed here seeks to extend the conventional analyses in two respects. Firstly we analyzed the fragment frequency distribution of the peaks and determined the most likely location of the genomic contact region of the DNA-protein interactions by using summit positions. Subsequently, we then represented the predicted contact points in terms of a genomic distance with respect to a reference point that we chose here as the center of the CTS. This had two important consequences. Since the CTS is a non-palindromic element, it has a strand specific orientation and thus the relative contact point positions can have both positive and negative values. Secondly, if we mapped the contact points of co-localizing DNA-binding proteins, we could then define an average distance (shift) between them. Underlying these considerations was the assumption that the fine positional shifts that may exist between the contact points of cohesin proteins (CTCF, RAD21, SMC1/3 and STAG1/2) may reflect the 3D position of the components within the complex. The genomic locations could thus be converted to approximate 3D distance constraints by projecting the shifts onto a 3D model of DNA.

#Contact: 
czipa.erik@ngsdeb.med.unideb.hu
